So let's begin the ninth episode of the Weekly Review.
My interview on TF1 is in a few hours, so I'll try
to say what I have to say as quick as possible.
First I will talk about this Youtube channel,
since we gained 40,000 subscribers this month.
Therefore, the audience of the shows on this channel is bordering on the audience of a TV channel,
since the average number of views for a Weekly Review is around 140,000 or 150,000,
and for similar videos on this YouTube channel as well,
while the average audience of the 24/7 News TV channels is around 180 000, 200 000, 220 000 people watching.
So you can see that we are about to reach the goal of bypassing a number of official media.
Still I can't compare with written press - and that's not the issue anyway - but what we are doing together,
you who subscribe and I who do these Weekly Reviews, is not just a small communication operation of a politician who made the right move!
We really are demonstrating that
there is a world that organizes itself completely outside the official media.
So I thank people like MisterJDay, because he talked about this show - I didn't ask him anything, I didn't know him -
he spoke favorably of it, and besides, this youtuber has five to six times more subscribers than I do!
So he is an authority, he is recognized, the debates are not bad...
You should consider where I come from! Someone said "Yes but they are pros..." Not at all!
At this moment, as I speak, we are three, and only one of us is a pro - he is in apprenticeship, but not with me!
The other one and I, we're amateurs! You know how I got there.
Someone told me: "You master the codes"... But I don't know them! I don't know what we're dealing with! I express myself normally. And how did I start?
I watched Ludo's videos on the "Osons Causer" channel. They're really good, I found them relevant, and he has a very strong style.
First, physically, he has a presence in front of the camera that I don't have! And he is able to say what he has to say very quickly
using formulas that are well developed. I understood what it's like to be a youtuber watching him,
I learned from him. So... Speaking of our communication tools,
I would like to tell you that during the meeting I did in Bordeaux this week,
apart from the fact that a lot of people came, some even had to stand in the street, I do not know how they did it,
they stayed outside, and I was convinced they would all flee like a flock of pigeons.
But they didn't, they stayed for two hours! It was cold, freezing cold!
So they stayed, and we set a sound system and TV screens outside so that people could watch.
And what we did for this meeting was quite new. I was walking on the stage,
but that's not what matters, this is easy, you just need to walk with two mics.
But a video and visuals were shown on screen as I was talking. So we managed to do a meeting that was also informative.
The audience's attention was not excessively focused on the person that was speaking, although I talked for almost two hours...
But apparently people did not think the meeting was so long since they stayed, and I think it's because we managed to combine different ways
of addressing everyone's intelligence with visuals, a video, the speaker... All these techniques come from our little world.
Then the other event, as far as communication is concerned, is that the author of the manga about me came to see me at the end of the meeting.
If you do not know why I'm an important man, I'll tell you. It's because there's a manga comic about me.
Of course manga comics are a bit violent you know, that's not really my style. In it, I fight different enemies,
and the author told me he was writing a second volume, and I can't wait to read it. Besides he's nice. He came to see me and we talked,
we got to know each other... And in the end we did something we will show you soon, because now I don't have it at hand.
I drew my own caricature, you see? And next to it he drew me as he does in the comic.
We both signed, we wrote the date... Besides it's funny because I wrote the wrong date, I wrote November 29th, 2017,
but we are in 2016. In 2017, if I am elected president, I don't think I'll draw manga comics backstage...
Anyway. I did this, and I'll put it on sale with two or three other things on eBay. It will help finance the campaign.
He and I are not planning to make a fortune, that's not the plan.
I'm saying this because I said something in the last video, and I added that we would see if someone would pay attention.
In the FAQ, I said that I would grant citizenship to Mr Assange and Mr Snowden if I was elected,
and I added that we would repatriate and decorate them. Well, some people heard what I said in the video, and that's how the news
was made public by a medium on the internet. Good job! So I have to mention it, because it wouldn't be correct not to.
It is the website Numerama who spotted the news in the video. Good job! This is a serious website.
Finally, the last mediatic event about me is this. This week, today, I am on the front page of "L'Obs" - and I'll be on TF1 tonight.
So there's a photo... So it's an event for two reasons. It's the first time
that someone from the radical left, from my school of thought, is on the front page of "L'Obs" for... at least thirty years.
So it's an event. Secondly, the photo is great. It's not a deriding photo, or one of those damn lies that have been said about me for years.
And the interview is good, because... Well, they asked me the questions they wanted to ask me. They did not ask me these questions
in order to fawn over me. Still, it's a good thing, because they used a respectful tone
so we could talk. This was not some shenanigans or some vile trap like the sketch you saw on France 2 a few days ago,
when Mr Delahousse backstabbed me by giving the floor to Mr Cohn-Bendit,
then apologized to him, saying "Oh you will not be able to debate tonight"...
But we were not supposed to have a debate! It was precisely the reason why I agreed to come. He was shocked that I did not want to say "tu".
["tu" is french for "you" but is mostly used when talking with close relationships, NDT]
Indeed I didn't want to. We're not friends, and I don't want to be a hypocrite and pretend we rub shoulders with each other.
That's not true, we're not friends at all! Morally, I can't stand him, and politically, he insulted me on many occasions, so why does he want to pass off as my friend?
Let's talk normally, in a civilized way! Let's say "vous" and call each other by our names, and that's it!
["vous" also means "you" but is more formal, conveys respect and distance, NDT]
I do not agree with the fact that he rubs shoulders with me.
Well, that was the topic to start the review
Now I want to thank Cyprien for liking one of my tweets, it made us very happy, the rest of the staff more particularly,
They really were in seventh heaven. I was told that Cyprien was the pope in this domain. No not the pope...
When I said "But is it really important?" They said "Yes, it is as if the President of the Internet Republic had quoted you"!
So... wooo! If he is the President of the Internet Republic... Dear Cyprien, thanks for noticing me.
Ok, so this is the Weekly Review, and this week, and... well I'm the event. I have the right to say that, right? This week, the program is coming out.
So why is it important? Because some people should realize that I'm not starting a career at my age!
So the message is not my person! I do not need that! The message is the set of ideas we fight for.
You shouldn't underestimate that. There's lots of people for whom ideas are central. There are 350 propositions, then there will be booklets and legilslative workshops
so that as many people as possible understand what's in the program, and be ready to help me if I'm elected.
But you know the other night in Bordeaux, the people there were freezing outside. Why do you think they came? They're not groupies you know?
They did not come as fans! Besides I saw it right away, I said to people: "Even if you're standing outside, you pulled it off!"
"Because your being so many here tonight shows that you believe in something!" And this something is not me, Jean-Luc Mélenchon,
but the ideas we fight for, which almost disappeared. But now they won't.
So this is the event. It costs three euros, it's cheap! So those who are watching can go to their local bookshop and buy it.
We'll all be on the street, and we hope to have 1000 outlets that will sell them, I have to take the risk of giving a figure, you know?
Hopefully, we will organize 1000 outlets for December 10th.
And let me tell you something: please don't ask me where the outlets are.
If you want to know where they are, just look on the website. And if there isn't, just go to your local bookshop,
buy three or four copies, and you probably have a camping table at home...
Okay, and if you haven't ordered anything - you forgot to order the poster, you've forgotten everything... Well, here is the poster. It's pretty isn't it?
So you forgot. Well buy four or five copies, take your camping table,
get a coffee pot, because the weather will be cold, get some plastic cups, get some coffee - or some tea if you prefer -
and go! Put some music if you want with your sound system, and there you go! Just do it yourself!
So you might want to say "But you're kidding!"
Well, no, I'm not kidding! I think that's the way we should do it.
If thousands of us do the same everywhere, we're going to meet and talk with other people!
Lots of people will never watch this show. But they will see you on the street!
They'll think: "There was this guy or this girl with Mélenchon's program, they're teaming up for him!"
That's the way we build a popular movement. What else can you rely on? The Socialist Party's primary? Is that the trick?
The primary? But this is not a primary, their stuff is just depressing! What's left of it?
This is not a primary! This is a Socialist Party congress! Everybody's gone! Mr Jadot, the environmentalist, he's now running for the Green Party (EELV)!
He advocated a primary of all the left. He kept saying "There must be a primary!" all the time! And now he's running for president on his own
with his party! The Radical Left Party won't take part in the primary either! The Communists are with me! Who's left in their primary?
The Socialists only! And some of their clients of course. So you are asked to take part in a Socialist Party congress, to vote and to give them two euros.
I mean, please! That's not the way we'll make things happen! What could make things happen in this country
is that a lot of people think and understand. Whenever there is a problem when they see something on TV, they just need to read the book
to know what our proposition is, they'll say "That's not enough",  or "Not bad, I had not thought about that", and "What is that supposed to mean?" and that's it!
That's an important civic moment. We can think! It's not about these pointless gadgets and quarrels!
Besides, maybe there won't be any Socialist Party's primary, because Hollande seems convinced that they should not organize it.
Ok, so here's the book. And there's also a paperback edition of this book that was just published. There's a paperback edition of almost all my books,
so I am very happy, because it only costs two or three euros, everyone can get them for that price.
I say everyone, but it's not true, I know some people don't have two euros,
since I have to give two euros to some who live on the street! Besides these days...
the weather's really cold, freezing cold, and it's a real heartbreaker to see people on the street.
The society we live in really is... disgusting.
This week, everyone was talking about Mr Fillon's program.
It's a good thing that it happened when my program came out, because it's the confrontation of two logics.
On the one hand it's "Every man for himself and God for all", that's Fillon! On the other hand, it's "All for one and one for all", and that's me!
"L'Avenir en Commun" [Future in Common, NDT] on the one hand,
"Un projet pour la France" ["A Project for France", NDT] on the other hand, Mr Fillon's program.
But Mr Fillon's program
is really... I said his program was a social coup,
Because when you destroy the country's social construction, that is,
Social Security, the Labour Code, legal working hours, well it's the equivalent of a coup!
He can do that only because of the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, but I'm really lucky,
because one of my relatives came across a video that he sent me, and he said: "Did you see that?"
In this video, Mr Fillon speaks in front of a panel of bosses, so he feels mighty!
To please them, he really came through
by saying he will remove the legal duration of labor. So you can forget about your paid overtime hours!
He will do away with social security, blah blah blah, there's quite a list!
At the end of my video, read the description, and you will have the link to watch this video,
you'll see it's not me who invented it, it's him, it's him talking, you'll see it's a funny feeling to hear that!
Plus, the guy is fearless, calling all this a "blitzkrieg", a German word for "lightning war",
first, the guy speaks German, that's curious, in general it's not used to say very sweet things.
A "blitzkrieg", "war" in German. Well, the war with the Germans we know what it's like, the war in German too,
so it's not all soft and gentle words.
So he calls it a blitzkrieg war, but the war against whom? That's the right question!
And when you look at his propositions, it is clear that the war is against everyone!
Because who is sick and needs to heal minor illnesses?
So Mr. Fillon said: "it's over now, from now on you'll go see a private insurance". Happy now, people?
You're already unhappy because the supplemental health insurance costs you money!
Those who need medical care most are those whose body is the most weakened... Then there's a reason why the body is weakened,
you can do nothing about it, it's the passing of time and it's old age!
So there's no need to be a smart cookie to figure out that a flu does not have the same effect
on a tired body or on an older body, or if you're 30 or 60 years old!
At 30 you feel unwell but then at 60 it can kill you!
So who was it that told him that there were benign diseases? What is a benign disease?
Why would we not reimburse it? If you don't reimburse it, people will be even more sick, they could die!
It's not... What I'm saying here is not a left-wing idea, there is no political label on it
Yet, he should understand that everyone gets sick even if you're a rightwinger!
Okay? This is not a political label issue! This is a common sense issue!
Common sense, it concerns everyone!
So this week, frankly, I'm blowing the whistle! Watch out for what is about to happen to you!
About health, I said it was an unbelievably stupid idea
to say "Well now, no social security anymore!".
The French have lived with social security since the Liberation,
it's as important as the Eiffel Tower and whatnot,
things of that nature which represent France, elsewhere abroad it's what they understand,
we have this system and it works very well!
So I'll talk about it, but it foreshadows a catastrophe for everyone!
Another information, because if I don't talk about it, no one will...
It is the problem of...
the disappearance of pollinating animals, I say animals because there's not only bees, there are other vertebrates that do that.
So I don't know who did the math, he said "It will cost 1,700,000,000 jobs in the world", something like that,
so, okay, 1,700,000,000 jobs, but that's not the worst part,
it is very serious, because life on earth is not possible if pollinators disappear. Because suddenly there won't be any fruits anymore!
And if there are no fruits, there are no seeds! And this is not only true for fruits that you eat, people!
I hope you did not understand that!
This is true for any plant, plant reproduction happens through seeds or roots,
there aren't 50 million ways to do it!
So it's a real threat to the flora of the planet!
So some say to me "Maybe you're exaggerating"... But tell me then, am I exaggerating?
Was I exaggerating when I said that it would go wrong
to destroy nature with pesticides?
50% of vertebrates have disappeared!
50% you hear? Half!
Half!
Vertebrate bodies running, crawling, flying...have disappeared of the planet, it is not nothing!
We've reached a point where it's been said that this is the sixth great extinction of life on the planet
because there were five before that, millions of years ago.
We are in a very serious situation!
Very serious!
And meanwhile, you hear some clowns talking about the Solidarity Tax on Wealth and everything, what an important issue!
What an important issue!
So we are confronted with a very troublesome situation!
I do what I can in my field.
For example in the European Parliament, I'm always fighting against glyphosates, neonicotinoids
the word is hard to pronounce! You know, words like these are invented for you to have a hard time pronouncing them.
If it's hard to pronounce them, then it's hard to remember them. And if you don't remember them, it means they did their job!
That's precisely what these words are made for!
So the European Union facilitates...
It facilitates the use of all these substances!
Every time we try to ban something, there comes an army, storming in, saying "Oh no no it's not possible,
it will be the final catastrophe and all" and they use tons of "scientific" arguments
to make people doubt! As if there was any doubt!
But I can guarantee you that there's no doubt about pesticides! All scientists agree on this point!
But lobbies have managed to do as if there was a doubt!
There is one person who has no doubt about it, and that's Fillon! He came up with a twisted phrase
that says: "We will do away with the additional standards imposed by Europe!"
So you might think: "To hell with Europe, if there are additional standards, it's a good thing to do away with them"
Well you've missed half the movie there,
because he's talking about agriculture, so I'll tell you what it means:
Europe authorizes GMOs but France used the hardship clause. We do not allow GMO.
So if you do away with the standard we added to what Europe decided, it means that you authorize the use of GMOs!
If you do, then vote Fillon,
If you don't, then vote for me!
Because we say exactly the opposite!
So don't say "It's all the same!" No, it's not all the same!
He says one thing, and I say the opposite! I say a something, he says the opposite!
So it's up to you! Because he and I will never agree!
So, here I'm taking the example of GMOs but it's the same with pesticides!
Because France banned some pesticides
and you have the lobby of productivist agriculture with Mr Xavier Beulin leading the way,
who is as much a peasant as I am a bishop!
He said: "No, you understand, there' aren't any natural alternatives to this pesticide, so we will continue to pour it everywhere!"
Well no, we won't!
We will not allow this! M. Fillon said "We will allow it!". I say we won't! And you, what do you think?
Do you like pesticides? Do you like eating all these rotten products full of pesticides?
Do you know it has an impact on fertility? Well inform yourself!
Learn about what's happening with young people today
who are struggling to have kids. Some can't even have kids anymore, they're going crazy. They're wondering why?
Well that's just because we made them eat junk food!
We must therefore stop with that. Do you know that there are thousands of birth defects?
That's the price to pay for this unsane logic, and you and I know they'll never stop
if we don't stop them!
If we hadn't done what we had to do with Asbestos, you can be sure that we would still be using it today!
Asbestos was banned because citizens, users and consumer associations mobilized to denounce its dangers.
So how long will it take for us to understand how dangerous these pesticides are?
How long will it take for you to wake up
and understand that we must not bring to power people who do not understand these issues, who are not even interested by these issues!
Because why does Fillon say all these things?
He's not wicker than anyone else, he simply doesn't know!
And as he has doubts... I guess he has doubts, like all the others!
They're not sure that the climate is jeopardized by human activity, they have doubts about this,  about that...
And when there are doubts, well let's keep doing as we used to do! That's what they think!
When there are doubts, well let's keep making money! That's what they think!
Why preventing such a wonderful activity that consists in producing all these trash?
Well yes, we have to stop this, because it is not reasonable at all to doom future generations
to a world full of pesticides, because when you pour pesticides into the soils
you eat junk food, and water gets contaminated,
so you drink junk, then it goes into the sea,
and then it goes through the entire food chain that absorbs it all. And that's not the worst scenario
because when it goes into the water, it kills everything that lives inside sometimes.
There are huge areas in the sea where there is nothing left! Nothing, not even grass.
So this is the world that they are making, and you were ready to elect a guy like that? Please!
Beyond any notion of political label of right or left, it's a problem that guys like that are elected!
They don't even realize the situation we're in, and the only thing they think of is "Oh my God,
how we will be able to do away with the Solidarity Tax on Wealth?" As if that was the problem!
Well, enough for today! So see you next week!
You've saw me on all sorts of media this week, so it's a good thing.
Give me the blue thumbs up if you liked this video, and subscribe because it helps me!
And you'll see that gradually, the world of which I became member
by posting these videos will soon prevail over the rest!
Suddenly lots of people will understand that this is where it all happens,
athough they thought it was just a playground for kids,
and that it had no real impact on society.
But they're wrong, that's where it all happens! It's all for now, see you!